= tame

tame exposes OpenBSD's tame(2) system call to ruby, allowing a
program to restrict the types of operations the program
can do after that point.  Unlike other similar systems,
tame is specifically designed for programs that need to
use a wide variety of operations on initialization, but
a fewer number after initialization (when user input will
be accepted).

tame(2) is supported on OpenBSD 5.8+.

== Usage

First, you need to require the library

  require 'tame'

Then you can use +Tame.tame+ as the interface to the tame(2) system
call.  You pass +Tame.tame+ symbols representing the operations you
would like to allow.  For example, if you want to give the process
the ability to read from the the file system, but not read from the
file system or allow network access:

  Tame.tame(:rpath)

To allow read/write filesystem access, but not network access:

  Tame.tame(:rpath, :wpath, :cpath)

To allow inet/unix socket access and DNS queries, but not
filesystem access:

  Tame.tame(:inet, :unix, :dns)

+Tame+ is a module that extends itself, you can include it
in other classes:

  Object.send(:include, Tame)
  tame(:rpath)

== Options

Here are the symbols that are supported, along with the tame(2)
permission they grant.

:abort :: TAME_ABORT
:cmsg :: TAME_CMSG
:cpath :: TAME_CPATH
:dns :: TAME_DNS
:getpw :: TAME_GETPW
:inet :: TAME_INET
:ioctl :: TAME_IOCTL
:proc :: TAME_PROC
:rpath :: TAME_RPATH
:tmppath :: TAME_TMPPATH
:unix :: TAME_UNIX
:wpath :: TAME_WPATH

Using an unsupported symbol will raise an exception.  The TAME_STDIO
permission is automatically used, as ruby does not function without
it.  See the tame(2) manual for details about what permissions the
options grant.

== Reporting issues/bugs

This library uses GitHub Issues for tracking issues/bugs:

  https://github.com/jeremyevans/tame_libs/issues

== Contributing

The source code is on GitHub:

  https://github.com/jeremyevans/tame_libs/tree/master/ruby

To get a copy:

  git clone git://github.com/jeremyevans/tame_libs.git

== Requirements

* OpenBSD 5.8+
* ruby 1.8.7+
* rake-compiler (if compiling)

== Compiling

To build the library from a git checkout, use the compile task.

  rake compile

== Running the specs

The rake spec task runs the specs.  This is also the default rake
task.  This will compile the library if not already compiled. 

  rake

== Known Issues

* You cannot create new threads after running +Tame.tame+, as
  it uses syscalls that are not currently allowed by tame(2).  +fork+
  still works.

* You cannot currently test +Tame.tame+ in irb/pry, as they use an
  ioctl that is not currently allowed by tame(2).

== Author

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
